I"	<h1 style="padding-left: 50px;">ARPA-E</h1>
<div>
Second life batteries from electric vehicles can be used in low-cost stationary energy storage systems, but face challenges when their dispersed state of health (SOH) and nonuniform battery characteristics cause a lower battery performance and reliability. The OPEN project, consisting of UCSD, Utah State University, and Colorado State University, is building a Heterogeneous Unifying Battery (HUB) system to recondition second life battery bricks in order to attain improved SOH uniformity, performance and reliability while also providing grid services. After reconditioning, the batteries can be sold for repurposing or recycling applications. 

The UCSD team developed a hardware-in-loop (HIL) test setup that includes state of charge (SOC)/SOH estimation, SOC and life balancing, and site controller algorithms written in MATLAB to test Nissan Leaf brick cells. The HIL test ran through 4 bricks, each brick containing 4 cells each, for over 200 cycles. To test for differences in SOH balancing, life gain of 0.2 was assigned to bricks 1 and 2, while life gain of 0.8 was assigned to bricks 3 and 4. 

The figure below shows the completed SOH standard deviation throughout the testing. All bricks achieved more than 50% reduction in SOH standard deviation, showing that the HIL test is successful in reconditioning the batteries. 

The final 100kW prototype is currently in the design phase of construction. The host site of this demo project is UC San Diego Trade Street Rear Book Archive, a commercial storage building. The prototype will consist of three HUB energy storage systems (ESS); two HUB ESS containing second life battery modules and one HUB ESS containing second life battery packs. The total power rating for all three systems is about 300kW, exceeding the planned demonstration size. All three units will be connected to a 500kW-rated power inverter and a Master Controller cabinet, an on-site controller for servicing the HUB ESS. Each unit will have its own HVAC system for temperature regulation and recombiner box for balancing and conditioning the second life batteries. The design and operational strategy of the HUB ESS is to reduce demand charge, perform sufficient energy time shifting, and provide energy for backup power for the host site.

</div>
:ET